---
title: Jan 8th, 2021
---
## [[poetry for programmers]] 
should be about the aesthesis; organization of a text, communication of an idea
## the prestige form of communication for zoomers is text smile
## the brain is all too eager to return to homeostasis, regardless of the lack of ease or comfort that exists in that state
## you have to be more willing to write things down. when something enters the mind you have to capture it or it will slip away
### mathematical [[thinking]] has always existed in opposition to mental thinking. the mind is:
###
## My Twitter Account
### if we understand ontogeny to recapitulate phylogeny, philosophy—as manifested in the socratic project—is the linguistic organism self reflecting upon its linguistic faculties
#### this project was, of course, the Dialectic
#### the hegelian dialectic may be understood as the recapitulation of the socratic dialectic in both cases, the speaker is attempting to understand what they're saying
#### the necessity—the mere existence, rather—furthers my theory that words don't have meaning until meaning is ascribed to them post hoc
#### that is too say, words are boxes without beetles, until beetles are assigned to said boxes by the Dialectic
### The Dao manifesting as yin and yang is all just 5 dimensional selfcest spiritual masturbation.
#### It manifests itself in a body, then advances until it can spiritually transcend its ribs and suck its own dick

can you remember when going out for wasn't a buzzword? when keeping in touch with old friends wasn't "networking"?

 ```sh
Leto,       i have killed
               the serpent, life denier,
       who now lives     the past  ;
never turn your back on earth
        —mother— or you'll be facing
                            me.
```

Every limitation holds the seeds of its transcendence.
Every limitation is a lineation. Pay attention. Watch for the pattern to emerge. Turn the pattern until it becomes a picture, until meaning emerges from the lines.
Your black paint is just as potent as nature's. Make meaning.

if God made two perfectly equivalent enchiladas at the same time, they'd be differentiated by space
if God made two perfectly equivalent enchiladas at the same space, they'd be differentiated by time
if God made two enchiladas at the same space&amp;time, there'd be one enchilada

i don't know. i don't know what i want.
all i ever wanted was to meme on western civilization.
i don't think authenticity will do that. maybe existentialism is western civilization memeing on me.

i would die to keep you
warm in my embrace
till we both turn to ash
in the sun's icy case

in Aristotelian terms, courage is recklessness until you have the power to take on what you charge
the golden mean lies relative to your abilities; your excellence (αρετε) lies relative to your excellence

it is the (~heart-mind~) that views the world,
and makes a worldview
Es ist das 心 das schaut die Welt an,
und macht ein Weltanschauung

murder is so terrible people will commit murder to stop it

you have been the wave
carrying these rafts — somewhere
      lively—lovely—fast.
when you were the stills,our sails
       couldn't keep us close
                                         by, bye bye
                     O, blow on by,
weft upon the warf ;
weaver,wearer,worry wart,
wind upon the shore.
what a sorry sorrow that
i couldn't see you stay
or bear some bought umbrella when
you're caught in costal rain.
salty, softly, summer-spray,
you belong by the sea
what a frosty folly, now
to trap you here,
with me.

while Plato uses Socrates as a character to prove philosophical points, Socrates does the same thing with all his interlocutors.
the platonic and socratic projects always have ends (Good) in sight: and all the men and women—even the philosophers—are merely players.
dialectic is never an open hearted search for truth, but somebody birthing their truth in another's head

bookbinding is only half the battle
the other half is being alive while you bind


oth of these things implicitly deny life, because deciding what is good &amp; and what is true is to Live.
(—or not. God is dead, after all.),what we are witnessing now is the death of another God: of Description, of True and False.
the Americans called this God "Journalistic Integrity/Ethics", "Freedom of the Press", sometimes even "Science". Kant liked "Science".,the God that died in Nietzsche's time was the God of Prescription, of Meaning:
a central point relative to which we could call something Good or Bad, "objectively".
fortunately, the bell tolls for thee.
Alexa can tell you what you s h o u l d be buying. AI can tell your CEO what to do. Facebook can tell you who you are.

if we just put microphones in forests the tree will make a sound, and we'll never have to philosophize again.

“God created Man…Men create God…It would be fitting for the gods to worship men!” —the Gospel of Philip
men created ialdabaoth to give them Free Will; without it, existence is meaningless.
the creation of ialdabaoth was the creation of meaning—sort of.
i'm going to group uppercase G Gods into two categories: the absolute and the relative, the Dao and the Demiurge.
Some examples of Dao Gods are "Zurvan, the Pleroma, the Buddha (kinda)"
Demiurgoi are all conditioned Gods: all Gods within time, space, Will, suffering.,the God that died in Nietzsche's time was the God of Prescription, of Meaning:
a central point relative to which we could call something Good or Bad, "objectively".
Free Will must anyways be g r a n t e d by a demiurge, because one can never be free relative to the Dao
one must shift one's perspective, and see only part of the universe: within that part, you are free. without that part, the question makes no sense.
right hand path mystics merging with ialdabaoth are the snake biting its tail

The Buddha is dead;&amp; i have killed him
all is full of buddha[nature], now

you too are a jealous God, when you punish because you love

roses are read
their type,set askew
namelessly sweet,
                        screaming:
"nothing is true"

if you want walkability, drive to a mall

Nietzsche was a yea-sayer, but, moreover, a yay-sayer

Nietzschean ethics should be understood relative to the Kantian:
in which everyone is an end in themselves. »What is great in man«, says Nietzsche,» is that he is a bridge
»and not an end«

the process of socialization is an externalization of “normality”
the child assumes everyone else thinks what—and how—they think. the child is the measure of the child's “Normal”.
the adult's “Normal” is social norms.

spearhead on skin, screech-
 skrying the sands ; through the hands
         through the ear, seep-ing
                 slippppppppppping, thr
            ougn     sand.
  scratching———say?—scraping:—away—
       leaving:sand.
			 
even the dead will to power https://t.co/Oqlu0s8bVk
ancient secrets are leaking in preparation for the heroic age

what ought to be?
good people? good thoughts? good deeds? good words?

what's better than a good person?
  parents: utilitarianism takes the most intellect
—and the least heart—
of all ethical systems.
the best utilitarian is still a terrible person.

what is the difference between saying “your brain thought x” and “you thought x”—most especially if we accept all *thinking* is done by the brain!

always blow candles out with \n a breathy "good night"

who are these Twitter celebrities i follow?
not quite an anon, not quite a name.
neither a voice coming from a corner in a café, nor a mouth of a friend, a known, an unknown—what can be known?
neither real nor fake. news
this is the world we wear.

humans are always parts of the systems they interact with.
a system is a system of interactions between nodes.
those things which interact are part of the system. those which don't aren't.
we are the society in which we live

it's too warm.for now.
it's https://t.co/IeFCuxAr6t's supposed
    to be what it was.
but instead,it's          what it is.
and—i'm telling you—that's wrong.

if somebody steals my jacket, i'll meditate until i get psychic powers to track it down, or psychic powers to get over it

the world isn't that much prettier with rose tinted glasses. just a different kind of pretty.

#defendMonads

tourists follow the ideology "tourism"

it's not that life has meaning/is meaningful
rather, life is meaning

The eye cannot see itself; and lives in millisecond lag.
We cannot speak of the present. The present is a future. We speak of what we see:
Modernity. Post-modernity? Post-post-modernity?

when will you court the commons, cat?
and cast off all your clothes?
what are you but your commons, cal'gry?
your rights, your streets, your oaths

the Christian-LogicFreak conflation of order with negentropy sincerely pisses me off

our current pace of progression is based on the assumption we can—but don't have to—replace the old tech in our systems

what's true is true forever,
why don't you know everything
now?

i am the creator of the phenomenal world

i don't think i believe in "the senses" anymore. The body has more sensory apparati than we can…sense? We feel the weight of our stomach, the hints of tastes;the way our heads and bodies tilt;heat, pain, pressure;acceleration;the texture of the ground;how we look when we dance…

i tend to imagine signals in the brain are just signals; and the process of interpreting those signals has everything to do with the wiring in that part of the brain, and nothing to do with the sense organ that bore it
such that, if you were to hook an ear up to the visual cortex, you would see sound.

7 is a subset of Number

The danger of externalizing morality comes when people realize they can act well enough to fool God.

the sage knows they aren't a sage

The difference between cosmos and chaos is an internal order.
Our order is the demiurge's λόγος of domination.

          padded, sullen, white;
    the ground, the cloud, the breeze,
                          drag
         sound      less        ly     inward
  and the skin   drags     the spirit
  screaming      down     to the fire.
	
people filled with hope and love and happiness don't drift rightward

looking away shall be my only negation…some day i wish to be only a Yes-sayer.
some day i wish to feel—eminating from my heart—nothing but warmest love; for all things. to feel it—but deny it my gaze—shall be my only negation.

what should flower then
had the buddha let his mind
ride the autumn breeze
even the eternal dharma
bears a cherry in the summer

the individual is always reflected in their god.


it must be understood as the *aboslute value* of the derivative of variety over time. a sudden---purposeful---drop in variety is agility.
agility is variety variety: how effectively can you reorganize your body as to present requisite vanity to the changing environment
agility is variety over time

competition is in no way a creative force—this is a common misunderstanding. random mutation is the creative force, and competition defines selection pressures which shape it.
competition is wholly destructive.

democracy is anti-fragile:
energy roused by discontent with the system is funneled back into the system via party politics

Aristotle was the philosopher of common sense, which is probably the worst insult i can think of


the necessity—the mere existence, rather—furthers my theory that words don't have meaning
until meaning or ascribed to them post hoc
that is too say, words are boxes without beatles, until beatles are assigned to said boxes by the Dialectic
the hegelian dialectic may be understood as the recapitulation of the socratic dialectic
in both cases, the speaker is attempting to understand what their saying,this project was, of course, the Dialectic,
if we understand ontogeny to recapitulate phylogeny,
philosophy—as manifested in the socratic project—is the linguistic organism self reflecting upon its linguistic faculties
